feat: NLog support (#993)
getsentry/sentry-docs: src/collections/_documentation/platforms/dotnet/nlog.md

---
title: NLog
sidebar_order: 13
---

Sentry has an integration with `NLog` through the [Sentry.NLog NuGet package](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Sentry.NLog).

## Installation

Using package manager:

```powershell
Install-Package Sentry.NLog -Version {% sdk_version sentry.dotnet.nlog %}
```

Or using the .NET Core CLI:

```sh
dotnet add package Sentry.NLog -v {% sdk_version sentry.dotnet.nlog %}
```

This package extends `Sentry` main SDK. That means that besides the logging related features, through this package you'll also get access to all API and features available in the main `Sentry` SDK.

> NOTE: Messages logged from assemblies with the name starting with `Sentry` will not generate events.

## Features

* Store log messages as breadcrumbs
* Send events to sentry

Two separate settings define the minimum log level to keep the log entry as a `Breadcrumb` and to send an `Event` to Sentry. The events include any stored breadcrumb on that [scope]({% link _documentation/enriching-error-data/scopes.md %}).

> By default, any message with log level `Info` or higher will be kept as a `Breadcrumb`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, Sentry will keep any message with log level `Info` or higher as a `Breadcrumb`.
```

The default value to report a log entry as an event to Sentry is `Error`.

This means that out of the box, any `Error` call will create an `Event` which will include all log messages of level `Info`, `Warn` and also `Error` and `Critical`.

## Configuration

You can configure the Sentry NLog target via code as follows:

```csharp
LogManager.Configuration = new LoggingConfiguration();
LogManager.Configuration
    .AddSentry(o =>
    {
        // Optionally specify a separate format for message
        o.Layout = "${message}";
        // Optionally specify a separate format for breadcrumbs
        o.BreadcrumbLayout = "${logger}: ${message}";

        // Debug and higher are stored as breadcrumbs (default is Info)
        o.MinimumBreadcrumbLevel = LogLevel.Debug;
        // Error and higher is sent as event (default is Error)
        o.MinimumEventLevel = LogLevel.Error;

        // Send the logger name as a tag
        o.AddTag("logger", "${logger}");

        // All Sentry Options are accessible here.
    });  
```

It's also possible to initialize the SDK through the NLog integration (as opposed to using `SentrySdk.Init`). 

> This is useful when the NLog is the only integration being used in your application. To initialize the Sentry SDK through the NLog integration, provide it with the DSN:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is useful when the NLog is the only integration you are using in your application. To initialize the Sentry SDK through the NLog integration, provide it with the DSN:
```

Reviewer 2: Also might want to change 
```
This is useful when the NLog is...
```
to
```
This is useful when NLog is...
```

```csharp
LogManager.Configuration = new LoggingConfiguration();
LogManager.Configuration
    .AddSentry(o =>
    {
        // The NLog integration will initialize the SDK if DSN is set:
        o.Dsn = new Dsn("___PUBLIC_DSN___"));
    });  
```

> NOTE:
The SDK only needs to be initialized once. If a `DSN` is made available to this integration, by default it **will** initialize the SDK. If you do not wish to initialize the SDK via this integration, set the `InitializeSdk` flag to **false**. Not providing a DSN or leaving it as `null` instructs the integration not to initialize the SDK and unless another integration initializes it or you call `SentrySdk.Init`, the SDK will stay disabled.

The SDK can also be configured via `NLog.config` XML file:

```xml
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<nlog xmlns="http://www.nlog-project.org/schemas/NLog.xsd"
      xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
>
  <extensions>
    <add assembly="Sentry.NLog" />
  </extensions>

  <targets>
    <target xsi:type="Sentry" name="sentry"

>             dsn="___PUBLIC_DSN___"

Reviewer 2: One thing I just thought of is that I specified that the `Dsn` is specified as a required parameter in the `SentryTarget`, which means that if a sentry target is defined in the `NLog.config` file without a dsn specified, it will probably not register the target correctly. 

I'd have to test it to verify that, but that could cause issues if people want to set the dsn another way. So that should either be documented here or else changed on the target, which I'm happy to do if you think that's the better option.

Author: Right. We should make this not required then. Firstly because the lack of `DSN` means _don't initialize Sentry at all_ but also because It's important to make it possible for integration *not* to initialize the SDK. The canonical way to init any Sentry SDK from the unified API is via `Sentry.Init` so allowing an integration initialize the SDK is just a convenience for those who use a single integration. It also helps making things idiomatic.

Could you please modify the integration to make `DSN` optional?

Reviewer 2: Can do. I should be able to send a PR this weekend.

            layout="${message}"
            debug="true"
            breadcrumbLayout="${message}"
            minimumBreadcrumbLevel="Debug"
            minimumEventLevel="Error">

      <!-- Advanced options can be configured here-->
      <options
          environment="Development"
          attachStacktrace="true"
          sendDefaultPii="true"
          shutdownTimeoutSeconds="5"
        >
        <!--Advanced options can be specified as attributes or elements-->
        <includeEventDataOnBreadcrumbs>true</includeEventDataOnBreadcrumbs>
      </options>

      <!--Add any desired additional tags that will be sent with every message -->
      <tag name="logger" layout="${logger}" />
      <tag name="example" layout="sentry-nlog" />
    </target>
  </targets>

  <rules>

>     <logger name="*" writeTo="sentry" />

Author: I've added a note about this. I tried to be detailed on how it works but still seems confusing. Would appreciate some suggestions.
Or feel free to make a PR on this branch too if you wish :)

  </rules>
</nlog>
```

### Options

#### MinimumBreadcrumbLevel

> A `LogLevel` which indicates the minimum level a log message has to be included as a breadcrumb. By default this value is `Info`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A `LogLevel` which indicates the minimum level a log message needs to be, for Sentry to receive it as an event. By default, this value is `Info`.
```

Reviewer 2: I think this might be a more appropriate change:

`LogLevel` that indicates the minimum level a log message needs to be in order for Sentry to receive it as a breadcrumb in an event. By default, this value is `Info`.

_(it should still specify that the message is being sent as a breadcrumb, not an event)_

Author: I hit commit suggestion without scrolling all the way. @josh-degraw is right, it's to be included as breadcrumb, not event. So the original text was right although perhaps confusing as most of what I write.

#### MinimumEventLevel

A `LogLevel` which indicates the minimum level a log message has to be sent to Sentry as an event. By default this value is `Error`.

#### InitializeSdk

Whether or not this integration should initialize the SDK. If you intend to call `SentrySdk.Init` yourself you should set this flag to `false`.

#### IgnoreEventsWithNoException

To ignore log messages that don't contain an exception.

#### SendEventPropertiesAsData

Determines whether event-level properties will be sent to sentry as additional data. Defaults to true.

#### SendEventPropertiesAsTags

Determines whether event properties will be sent to sentry as Tags or not. Defaults to false.

#### IncludeEventDataOnBreadcrumbs

Determines whether or not to include event-level data as data in breadcrumbs for future errors. Defaults to false.

#### BreadcrumbLayout

> Custom layout for breadcrumbs.

Reviewer 2: I'd been assuming anyone who is planning on using this would be familiar with `NLog` layouts, but it might be good to put a link to the documentation for layouts, e.g. either https://nlog-project.org/config/?tab=layout-renderers or https://github.com/NLog/NLog/wiki/Layout-Renderers, just to make it easy if someone is coming from sentry to nlog, for example, instead of the other way around.

Might not be that big a deal, but it could come in handy for people new to NLog.
